# Artist Statement  - Darkness
Benjamin Delorme


When it comes to creating projects for school or for my own, I've always been interested towards everything related to horror or creepy. I like to create an ambiance that reflect such an atmosphere. This is why when I read James Bridle essay  "Something is wrong on the Internet" I was inspired to create this project called darkness. Basically, you incarnate a ghost who's lost and is trying to find his way to his girlfriend, lost in the darkness. His only indication are lights sources, one on his left, one up, one right and another one down. Trying to find your way just by randomly guessing every time would be impossible and would most likely lead you to get lost forever in these infinite darkness. Lucky for you, there are voices giving you indication on which way you should take, but who can you trust? Most of the voices are evil and want you to get lost but there is one of them, somewhere between all these other voices that wants you to succeed and always gives you the right direction. If you manage to figure out which one of these voices is trying to help you, you might manage to find your way but otherwise, you will get lost forever with only the sound of the voices that fouled you laughing at you, tormenting you for eternity. This game doesn't really offer a good ending since if you lose, you will literally be stuck there forever unless you refresh the whole page, and if you manage to find your girlfriend, the second you touch her the game will restart and you will have to find your way to her again. I believe this whole game is a good representation/simulation of the situation with Youtube or social medias in general that Bridle presents in his essay. How although you have a goal in mind and try to find something specific, you are required to use a system out of your control to reach this goal, whether it's finding your ghost girlfriend or finding a the good video. That system though isn't perfect and it can easily misguide you into direction you might not have wanted to take if you knew the outcome of these decisions, but since it's out of your control, there's no way for you to know which one of these guide you can trust. The same way this games gives you a bunch of indications with some being right or wrong, Youtube offer a bunch of videos with a lot of different thumbnails and titles and you can't know which one is correct unless you click on it. This is why it's dangerous as a parent to verify if the content you selected is indeed what you expected and wanted before giving it to your child and leaving them to it ,for you could've just been mislead by these ambiguous titles and thumbnails, or directions. I also find it interesting this game reflect how easy it is to get lost forever in this darkness, the same way it's easy for fall for these algorithms and get lost in them. Regarding the design elements of the game, as I mentioned before, I thought it was a good opportunity to create an environment with a creepy atmosphere. From the music, the screeching sounds to the creepy voices giving you directions, I believe I manage well to create such an ambiance.
