Benjamin Delorme
Project 1

For this project, as recommended, I tried to create a game that relies entirely on the javascript libraries jQuery and jQuery UI, to create both its design and in its functionality. Therefore, the main interactions in the game rotate around the idea of having draggable divs, which you can drop in differents zones that have individual properties. I thought it was an interesting concept of creating a game involving only what is usually used for navigation and user interface in games. In this instance, I have created a game where there are random words appearing on the screen. Half of them are written correctly and the other half are not. The goal of the game is to grab the words and drop them in the corresponding zone, whether they're spelled correctly or not. This game goes on forever, you cannot complete it, but you only have five lives. After dropping the words in the wrong category five times, game's over and you restart.
 It's with this element that I approach the brief of the project, which was to create an experience similar to the one of Sisyphus. This game create such an experience not only because it offers an endless task that one can't win but only play endless without an end, but it also references the tale in it's concept. The same way Sisyphus has to continuously repeat his task as a punishment and to repent the mistakes he's made, this games makes you think about mistakes. Since it makes you continuously look at commonly misspelled words that you've probably misspelled once in your life, forces you acknowledge the mistake and understand it over and over again to the point where eventually you know which one is right and wrong. Although it's true that this game may provide you with a potential denouement where you know all the words and have learned everything you could learn from this experience, it still offers the sense of an endless performance, almost suggesting that there's no such thing as never making a mistake. Even if you get them all right and get a grip of all the words, you're bound to eventually make a mistake, whether it's because of the pressure of hurrying or simply an accidental misplacement due to a brain fart. Such behavior brings the context importance since it shows that even if you know something, you still can make mistakes under certain circumstances and a particular context. This idea can be applied to many situation in life and makes you think to always try to consider the context and the different possible reasons to this situation. 
For the sounds used in the game, it serves no purpose to the carried message but it helps send feedback to the player whether he got the answer right, wrong or if he lost the game. As for the visual representation, I went for a simple style with distinct colors, that way it is easy to identify each elements and their purpose in the game.
