# Artist Statement   - Make a Friend
Benjamin Delorme

Since the project was making anything we wanted, I tried to focus on finding a subject I found interesting and yet relevant to our current era. With social media being at the center of our world right now, I thought creating an experience reflecting these social interactions could bring forwards multiple questions and thoughts towards the matter in regards to our society. This is why I created this fake company called Make A Friend, which explores the idea creating a friend that applies to your own criteria and lets you interact with him in anyway you want, whenever you want to. This is the idea developed in this project: a not-so-distant future where you don’t need social interactions with other humans anymore. No need to go outside, meet people, change to please others, make efforts to fit in a place you don’t necessarily want to fit in. In this future, with the state of the technology, this is possible. All your social interactions can be done with a computer, a machine that reacts just as a friend would, but better. A world that fits your demands and lets you be whoever you want to be. This idea doesn’t sound that crazy when you look at the AI around us. Whether it’s through video games or apps, we already see that people prefer interact with these “fake” individual instead of actually seeing people, and to be fair it is completely understandable. Why choose the hard and challenging life outside when you can get the easy way while staying in the comfort of your home. It’s this idea of a world where people don’t need to talk to another human being that intrigues me, where the user and the machine complete a perfect relationship and nothing else is necessary. We are now closer than ever to this reality and although it sounds scary to imagine in some aspects, it sounds totally plausible in others. With Make A Friend, you can talk and play to someone, the same way you would with a friend. I even explore a further prototype with the update button, where I speak of possibilities for this program. By bringing this concept of virtual friend to advance reality or on your phone, you really extend this relationship to resemble an actual human relationship. This project is not about what it can do but more about the idea behind what it can eventually become. It’s a first step towards an idea that society could very well go to. Ever since I started using speech synthesis and recognition on the computer, I knew I would want to use it for a bigger project. It hit me how interesting it is that with only a few lines of codes, you can hold a conversation with a machine. I always find it funny to imagine from a third view a person and a computer talking to each other as if there was someone else in the machine. Who knows, maybe it’s for the best if we turn our social interactions to AI.
